Now that we're set up let's get started.
So the first thing we're going to do is kind of talk a little bit about the basics of the scoping mechanism
inside of Javascript.
So javascript uses a mic scoping mechanism called lexical scoping.
All getting into a lot of the details of it.
Basically what it means is that the scope for your variables or functions in other words the rules by
which they can be accessed or cannot be accessed is pretty much defined at Author time and it's set
in stone by the time the javascript engine executes your code.
Now there are ways around it.
I understand that evil functions and whatnot but for the most part Javascript is a lexically scoped
language.
Now there is another scoping mechanism called dynamic scoping.
And we're not even going to really cover that but it would probably wreak havoc inside of javascript.
Now inside of javascript there are two main scopes that is the global scope.
And then you have a function scope.
So what we'll do to demonstrate this is we will make a variable called Person and we'll set it equal
to John and then we're going to do an if.
So the function.
And then inside of here we're just going to count that out log person.
And after that we're going to copy this.
So I'm going to do Control-C that's commands on the Mac and we'll copy that and paste it with control
the command VI on the Mac and then we'll just invoke our if he and you'll see that it prints out John
2 times inside of the global scope what happens is basically our engine goes to look for this person
variable that we're referencing we're inside of the global scope.
And so what happens is it finds person variable inside of the global scope.
And so that is the variable that uses.
However inside the function scope what happens is the engine looks for this person variable that we're
referencing inside of the function scope just inside of the function basically.
And it doesn't find it.
So what does it do.
It goes to the next outer enclosing scope which in this case would be the global scope.
And then it looks for it it sees Oh there is a variable called person in so it uses this variable instead.
Now if we define our own variable inside of the function scope like so we'll call it Jessica.
You'll see that it'll actually use that variable instead.
Because whenever the engine looks for this person variable that we're referencing inside of this function
scope it's going to immediately find it inside of that function scope.
So once it finds the variable that it's looking for it's going to stop looking.
So it will never reach this person variable right here.
And that is why we can have two different variables of the same name.
Also referred to as shadowing.
Now this is where it gets really interesting.
OK that's kind of the basics.
Now let's get into something a little weird.
So how do you function check and we'll define a parameter of Boole and inside of here we'll do a simple
check if bool then we're going to do var name equals Jessica and then counsel or log Jessica or a log
the name scuse me.
Nobody else consulate or log.
Try again.
Exclamation point to yell at them.
So everything should be working fine if I run a check and pass in true it's going to print out Jessica
or at least it should and it does.
And if I pass and falls it's going to run the else statement in and it's going to run try again in the
council and you can see that works pretty well.
But let's make it a little more interesting just outside of the else statement.
We're going to counseled or log the name just like that so honorary consul not log the name.
You can see we get undefined which if you think about it that really shouldn't work.
So typically whenever you try to reference a variable that doesn't exist it'll actually throw a reference
error and let you know hey you never defined this variable or you never initialized it or anything like
that.
If you however define the variable but you never initialize it with a value it will be undefined.
So that's what's happening here.
So basically it's saying that we actually defined the variable but we never assigned a value which would
be strange to someone who's not very familiar with Javascript.
So really what's going on here is hoisting and the way that thing works is actually pretty interesting.
But essentially you have three different mechanisms to worry about.
You have the compiler you have the scope and you have the engine what really happens is javascript is
actually compiled just before it's executed.
It's a common belief that javascript is an interpreted language but actually it is compiled it's not
compiled in a separate build stage before the execution like most compiled languages but it is indeed
compiled.
Often times just seconds before it needs to be executed so it has to do it in a very sophisticated and
a lot of optimizations and whatnot.
So essentially what happens is you have lexing so it breaks your code up into little pieces and then
it's turned into an abstract syntax tree which is just a representation of your code as these little
token tokens.
And then after that the compiler generates code for your engine to be executed for your engine to execute.
So at the end of the day when I'm trying to say very briefly is that whenever the compiler goes through
and it Genner it flexes your code or tokenize is it and then after that it turns into an abstract syntax
tree.
What it does is it goes ahead and it is aware of all of your variable declarations but it generates
code for your engine to execute later.
And that code can handle the assignment of the value to the variable.
OK.
So in other words what happens is the first time javascript goes through to put it simply it's aware
of your variable declarations and the second time javascript goes through it's aware of your assignments.
So what really happens if I rewrite this is I'm going to copy this with Control-C and then commented
out like so what we really did here is we did like var name up top.
So just take this out and put that right there and then right here we didn't name equals Jessica.
OK.
Because first off there is no block scoping at least originally inside of Javascript.
And so whenever you have this variable really what it is is it's inside of the function scope right
here and it's being quote unquote hoisted to the top because of the way that your compiler works inside
of Javascript.
So that's all very technical but at the end of the day what I'm saying is that this variable right here
is going to be available throughout the entirety of this function.
OK.
Just because you declare it like you did here inside of these curly braces inside of this code block
that does not mean it is only available inside of those curly braces.
OK.
But that is not the case with LET very.